This time two sets of researchers may have found the first free-floating stellar mass black holes or black hole ever. Only about two dozen such black holes have ever been detected. All in binary systems. None ever alone. This research comes from space telescope science institute in Baltimore and from the university of California, Berkeley. Both teams use ground-based telescopes for photometric data which is essentially the light. The characteristics of the light detected opposed to the other data that they got from Hubble which was astrometric data which precisely measures positions and movements and that, that's the key to this news item because that data specifically allows a more direct determination of mass, distance and velocity. Which is the information you need to really come to the conclusions that they did. So the black hole that they found is five thousand light years away. In the Carina–Sagittarius Arm of our Milky Way over there. And I'm pointing to my left.
They're from giant stars. The big boys. More than 20 times the mass of the Sun. So we're talking about ending up with black hole masses from a few solar masses to as much as a couple hundred. But it's I mean they're pipsqueaks. They're big and they're massive and they're all burly and tough but they're pipsqueaks of course compared to what we often talk about on the show. The supermassive black holes that are found in the centers of galaxies with millions or even billions of solar masses. Though they're tiny but still impressive and much in a lot of ways much less well-known. At least out on their own. And these stellar ass black holes that are by themselves they're quite hard to see. They're very hard to see. Of course if they don't have the binary partner. Because typically if you're if a black hole is orbiting a star you can see the star. And so it's easy to find that the black hole is there. And they're also hard to see if there's no accretion disk to light it up. So how did hey detect such an invisible black hole then? Two words: gravitational microlensing. Talked about this on the show before. This is when a gravitational source doesn't just bend or distort background light but generally or greatly amplifies it. So that's what happened. This 5 000 light year distant black hole kind of passed in a sense in front of a background star that was 19 000 light years away and greatly magnified it and distorted it in very diagnostic ways. Ways that you can then use to determine how far away it is. I mean how how massive the black hole that could actually do that level of distortion. So they used a lot of the same data but these two teams came up with different results to a certain extent. The Berkeley team calculated a mass between 1.6 and 4.4 times that of the Sun. So that's why they're not certain that it's a black hole. They can't be as confident as they want to be. Because why? Because a neutron star could potentially be up to you know 2.2 solar masses. So at the low end of their estimate that they may have potentially found a neutron star and not a black hole. So that's possible. But the other team, the space telescope science institute team, they claim that the mass of the black hole is 5.8 to 8.4 solar masses. Meaning in their minds and in their numbers this can only be a black hole. So the researchers--a stellar mass black hole obviously. So the researcher said: "This is the first free-floating black hole or neutron star discovered with gravitational microlensing. With microlensing we're able to probe these lonely compact objects and weigh them. I think we've opened a new window onto these dark objects which we can't see any other way." So yeah so there could be many more discoveries like this in the future especially if the upcoming Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope does as we hope it what it will do. It's going to have an amazing accuracy and it could vet many thousands of microlensing events to find many more stellar mass black holes. So that's the that's the crux of the story there but I know what you're thinking. 
 this was interesting. NASA in the past has said that it's likely that such a stellar mass black hole is as close as 80 light years away. So that 80 light years it's in the grand scheme of things that's pretty close. What if it came a lot closer. What if a stellar mass black hole wandered into our backyard. What would happen? What would happen? I think it's just a fascinating mental exercise. So it would, think about it, it's approaching our solar system. It's gotta go through the the Oort cloud of comets about a light year away. It could knock out a bunch of comets. If it could--you got to think it would miss the outer planets. It's like an atom out there in terms of like it's mostly empty space out there. So I think about the black hole would probably miss by a large degree the outer gas giants. And we would only detect it through microlensing. We'd have to be looking at it and to see distorted background light. And can you imagine I'm just thinking of a scientist that detects microlensing events and then they calculated this since. Ah cool let's see how far away this event was. Oh my god it's in it's where the outer planets are. It's within our solar system. That is the first time that would be a really good time to panic. 