I will start by saying that somehow miracle of just missing certain pieces of reality. I know about this. At all. And I think it's very interesting because I live on the internet. My job is internet based and I didn't know that something called a virtual influencer existed. And I wanna say I'm really happy that I didn't know about it. 
virtual influencers. What are they? They are they're personas that are created by a person or a team of people that mimic real people. I say that they mimic real people because some of these virtual influencers they look almost real. Others can have an anime look to them. Others have exaggerated features which I'll get into. They're essentially, these virtual influencers, are essentially doing the same things that real people do online but that's just it. They're not real people. They're a construct. They're made up by other people. So there are a lot of these virtual influencers out there and some have earned large followings. Which I will when I describe this to you I imagine that those of you who don't know about this will get blown away like I was and how big these followings can get. Even though these personalities at their core they're computer generated. The way that they look, the videos that you see. This is all computer generated by people to pretend in a way that it's a real person. Even though the vast majority of the audience knows it's not a real person the whole game here is to act and pretend like it's a real person. The content that these virtual influencers have it's similar to content created by real people. They have YouTube videos. Tons of pictures of themselves doing all sorts of things all over the world. They're found on all social media platforms. So the the shorthand of thinking about this is there are people who make these avatars and they're individual. They have names and they have personalities and they have recognizable faces and voices and everything that makes them unique. Or makes a human being unique. They have it as well. So let me give you some examples. The first one that was created goes back to 2007. The character is called Hatsune Miku. 
This character started off literally as a voice changing software. But when they packaged the software they came up with like this character that would kind of represent the software. And since its creation back in 2007 the people who created this evolved this character into a popular personality. Even though Hatsune is virtual people pay to go to her concerts in the real world. 
So we have now the very first one that probably came into existence ended up being legitimately a huge money earning entity. And again there is no person really behind this. It's probably a group of people that are creating all this content and everything that goes into this virtual character. 
 there's real money behind this and so there are companies that their whole game is this. Like create these personas that they create. So let me go through a few more give it other examples of what's out there. So this other virtual influencer is called Lu do Magalu and please you know I don't know exactly how to pronounce all these names. This is one from Brazil and started out as a virtual sales associate for a magazine. Lu do Magalu became an online personality on YouTube in August 2009 and it now has over 55 million followers across social media. And I do encourage you to go look these things up on the internet and see pictures and you can see some of the videos that are out there. So as the technology improves so does the look of most of these virtual influencers. The voices become more real sounding and at some point in the near future there'll be virtual people who look and look exactly like real people online. They could even be in movies and TV shows. Imagine a virtual person who has this following online who people recognize the face and all that stuff. It's gonna happen. Somebody's gonna put one of these characters in a movie like a real person and you're not gonna be able to tell the difference. 
This one first appeared online on Instagram in April 2016. This particular one looks like a young girl with straight dark hair and freckles. When it first appeared online some people weren't sure if this one was real or computer generated. That's how good some of the imagery looks. And after a few months the company who created it named Brud B-R-U-D, this company is located in Los Angeles, they revealed that it's a marketing stunt. And now they use computer graphics and real photography to create all the media that is behind this character. A quick search on YouTube produced a video of this character. And I found this video that had 1.5 million views. 
One of these that I'm recommending that you check out because it's a really good example of this and it's also kind of creepy is called Serah Reikka R-E-I-K-K-A. This one has enormous, oddly enormous breasts. Incredibly skinny legs. Big lips. You get the picture. You're going we're going for like that whole creepy barbie doll look that you may have come across on the internet where some people are changing their bodies to look like barbie and they end up looking kind of freakish here. So as you might be guessing there is a real downside to these virtual influencers. Now I can't say all of them. I'm not trying to be like this whole thing is as bunk. But there is definitely a trend going on here that I noticed while researching this and that I've definitely read about. Now beyond the fact that this these people are not real people some fans of the influencers strangely feel like they're developing relationships with them. Some of these virtual AI driven influencers are able to "talk" to their fans. They are talking to their fans. They're talking to their fans more than you would ever get out of a real famous person. Unlike being a real, with real people they don't have time to do this. But virtual influencers can simultaneously simultaneously be talking to thousands of people at the same time forging false relationships. And it's happening. There's something called parasocial relationships. A parasocial relationship is a is simply a one-sided relationship where one person expends emotional energy. They're showing interest and time is going by and meanwhile the other party or persona is completely unaware of the other one's existence. That's a that is a a real problem. These kinds of relationships are not healthy. And once they go too far and it's not--I wouldn't say it's common but it happens and it happens to enough people where their lives can get ruined. Once one of these relationships goes too far a fan can start to become obsessed and then this parasocial relationship can become toxic and then it becomes detrimental to their mental health. 
