All right so this all stems out of a recent news item. Bear with me while I explain Shaman Durek announced that he is engaged to princess Märtha Louise of Norway. And from that one sentence alone the first question that would immediately pop in your mind is what does that have to do with the price of tea in China? I love that expression. But in this context what it means is that what does this have to do with anything involving science or skepticism? That's a good question and I will explain. All right Shaman Durek who is this? No, not a character from planet Vulcan on Star Trek Bob.Well or some people more correctly phrase it a show man but more on him in a second. And he announced his engagement to princess Märtha Louise of Norway and according to Wikipedia she's a member of the Norwegian royal family, a businesswoman and a self-described clairvoyant. So you have a shaman marrying a clairvoyant. That's a match made in heaven I guess? Among the--so you go to Durek's website you got to learn about this guy. And services on his website shaman boot camp, workshops, speeches, home clearing like I guess from like poltergeist this house is cleaned kind of thing. And shamanic experiences whatever it is. H e has spoken in the past of being able to get patients to vomit. Patients to vomit to get rid of poisons in their bodies. And he keeps a bucket in his office for sessions in case they need to throw up and that sounds very appropriate. But here's the description of himself in his own words Shaman Durek, this is from his website: "Shaman Durek is a 6th generation shaman, and author of the best seller, ‘Spirit Hacking: Shamanic Keys to Reclaim Your Personal Power, Transform Yourself, and Light Up the World.’". That book came out in 2019 and in that book Durek claims, yep, childhood cancer is caused by unhappiness. And for that he was properly sort of shunned by a lot of publishers around the world. But the book had already made it out actually and was published in a lot of countries including the United States before actually some of these publishers got a hold of it and started to read what the heck was in that book. And only afterwards they went oops and yeah we're going to pull this book. We're not gonna--this should not have been published and we're gonna stop this. And there was a big it was kind of a big shock wave at the time in a sense. The company in Norway that was publishing the book not only had to pull the book and but released a bunch of statements saying that they were unaware of these kinds of claims in the book. But they're saying this it's obviously this is harmful to people and should never have been published in the first place. So obviously a huge huge mea culpa on that one by the publishers. Here's from the (laughs) my gosh this is straight from his Wikipedia page. I love this. He advocates several conspiracy theories and has been characterized by by Norwegian media and other critics as a conman. His only book the one I just talked about was described by critics as nonsense, garbage and dirty talk and the ravings of a lunatic. And those are quotes. 
This has been around for, this idea --thousands of years old. So there's tons of examples of it. Here's a more recent one. Tin May Lwin, former University lecturer in Myanmar and now advises people to approach treatment for cancers at this place called the Horizon Cancer Center in I believe the Philippines. And here's what she says. This is a university lecture: "Positive thinking, not putting too much pressure on yourself and always believing that you are in fact cancer free, living a happy life as you normally do, that is the key to being cured of cancer. I feel that our state of mind is extremely important to the treatment process. If we believe that we will be cured we will be cured. Believe me. If you think that you won't make it you won't." That is wicked.
 