This time, two sets of researches may have found the first free floating stellar mass black holes or black hole ever. Ah, only about two dozen such black holes have ever been detected, all in binary systems. not none. Ever Alone on this research comes from Space Telescope Science Institute and Baltimore and from the University of California Berkeley. Both teams used Grandpa's telescopes for a photometric data which is essentially the light the characteristics of the light detected opposed to the other data that they got from Hobble, which was estramatric data which precisely measures positions and movements. And that was the catsic key to this news item because that that data specifically allows that the more direct determination of mass, distance, and velocity, an arm, which is which is the information you need to really succumb to the conclusions that they did. so. The black hole that they found is five thousand light years away in the Carena Sagittarious Spiral Arm of our Milky Way over there. and I'm pointing to my left. There are from giant stars, right to big. the big boys more than twenty times the mass of the sun. So we're talking about ending up with black whole masses from a few solar masses to as much as a couple of hundred. Ahm. But it's so mean that their pip squeaks right. Their big and their massive. And they're all burly and tough. But they're pip squeaks of course, compared to what we often talk about on the show, the superb massive black coals that are found in the centers of galaxies where millions are even billions of solar masses. Though they're tiny but still impressive and much you know in a lot of ways, much less well known at least out on their own. and the Selimas black holes that are by themselves. they're quite hard to see the very hard to see of course if they don't have the binary partner ah that you know quite typically if you're if a black hole is orbiting a star you can see the star and so it's easy to find that the black hole is is there and you can do also hard to see if there's no a Grecian disk to light it up. So how did they detect such an invisible black hole? Then two words: Gravitational Microll Lensing Talked about this on the show before I'm this is when a gravitation of source doesn't just bender the Stuart background light but generally or greatly amplifies it. So that's what happened this five thousand light year distant black holes kind of passed in Eno in this in a sense in front of background a background star that was nineteen thousand light years away and greatly magnified it and distorted it in very in very a diagnostic ways that you can then use to determine im you know how far away it is and in how a how massive the black hole that could actually do that level of distortion. So they used a lot of the same data but these two teams came up with different results ought to a certain extent. On the birthday team calculated a mass between one point six and four point four times that of the sun. So ah, that's why they're not certain that it's a black hole. They can't be a competent as they want to be. Because Why? Because a neutron star could potentially be up to in a two point two solar masses. So at the low end of their estimate that they may have potentially found a a a Nuttron star and not a black hole. Ah, so that's the butt's possible. But the other team, the Space Telescope Science Institute team. They claim that the mass of the black hole is five point eight to eight point four solar masses. Meaning, in their minds and in their numbers, this can only be a black hole. so the researches of a Stella mass blackle obviously. So the researcher said this is the first free floating black hole or neutron star discovered with gravitational micro lensing. with Michael lensing able to probe these lonely compact objects and weigh them. I think we've opened a new window on to these dark objects which we can't see any other way. So yes, so why there could be many more discoveries like this in the future, especially if the upcoming Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope Ah does as we hope it and what it will do. omits. couldn't have an amazing accuracy and it could vet many thousands of microlynsic events to find many more. Still are mass black holes. Ah, so that's the best. the crux of the story That, but I know it. you're vacant. This was interesting now and the past has said that it's likely that such a stellar mass black hole is as close as eighty light years away. So that and eighty light years it's you know to Grant's give me things it that's pretty close. What if? What if it came a lot, Lie closer. I'm going to what if a stellar mass black hole wandered into our back yard. What would happen right? What would happen? I think it's just a fascinating a mental exercise. I'm so it would. think about it. It's approaching our solar system. It's going to go through the old world. the old cloud of comets right about him a light year away. It could knock out a bunch of comets it could pray. You've got to think it would miss the outer planet. tried. It's like an atom out there in terms like its mostly empty space out there. But ah, so I think of. But the black hole would probably miss ah by his by a large degree. the outer gas giants. Ah. and we would only detect it through Michael's lensing, right? We'd have to be looking at it and to see distorted background light. And can you imagine? I'm to think it of a scientist that detects micro lensing events. Then they calculated this and saw a cool let's see how far away this event was. Oh my god it's in. It's where the outer planet's ours within our solar system. That is the first time. That would be a really good time to panic.